README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <h1><a href="https://www.epicweb.dev/workshops">Advanced Vitest Patterns</a></h1>
  <strong>
    Become a Vitest superuser 🦹‍♀️
  </strong>
</div>

<hr />

<div align="center">
  <a
    alt="Epic Web logo with the words Deployed Version"
    href="https://advanced-vitest-patterns.epicweb.dev/"
  >
    <img
      width="300px"
      src="https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/1500684/254000390-447a3559-e7b9-4918-947a-1b326d239771.png"
    />
  </a>
</div>

<hr />

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[![Build Status][build-badge]][build]
[![GPL 3.0 License][license-badge]][license]
[![Code of Conduct][coc-badge]][coc]
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Prerequisites

- Prior experience with testing frameworks like Jest or Vitest is **required**.
- Basic level of TypeScript is **recommended** since all the exercises are
  written in TypeScript and you may have to write a type or two yourself.
- Visual Studio Code or Visual Studio Code-based editor is **recommended** as a
  few exercises feature extensions for that editor. The majority of the topics,
  however, is editor-agnostic.

## Pre-workshop Resources

Here are some resources you can read before taking the workshop to get you up to
speed on some of the tools and concepts we'll be covering:

- [Why Vitest?](https://main.vitest.dev/guide/why.html) and
  [Vitest comparisons to other tools](https://main.vitest.dev/guide/comparisons.html)
  will give you a good understanding as to why we are using Vitest in this (and
  other) workshops.
- [Working with Visual Studio Code Extensions Marketplace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/configure/extensions/extension-marketplace).

## System Requirements

- [git][git] v2.18 or greater
- **[NodeJS][node] v24 or greater**
- [npm][npm] v8 or greater

All of these must be available in your `PATH`. To verify things are set up
properly, you can run this:

```shell
git --version
node --version
npm --version
```

If you have trouble with any of these, learn more about the PATH environment
variable and how to fix it here for [windows][win-path] or
[mac/linux][mac-path].

## Setup

This is a pretty large project (it's actually many apps in one) so it can take
several minutes to get everything set up the first time. Please have a strong
network connection before running the setup and grab a snack.

> **Warning**: This repo is _very_ large. Make sure you have a good internet
> connection before you start the setup process. The instructions below use
> `--depth` to limit the amount you download, but if you have a slow connection,
> or you pay for bandwidth, you may want to find a place with a better
> connection.

Follow these steps to get this set up:

```sh nonumber
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/epicweb-dev/advanced-vitest-patterns.git
cd advanced-vitest-patterns
npm run setup
```

If you experience errors here, please open [an issue][issue] with as many
details as you can offer.

## The Workshop App

Learn all about the workshop app on the
[Epic Web Getting Started Guide](https://www.epicweb.dev/get-started).

[![Kent with the workshop app in the background](https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/1500684/280407082-0e012138-e01d-45d5-abf2-86ffe5d03c69.png)](https://www.epicweb.dev/get-started)

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.com/
[node]: https://nodejs.org
[git]: https://git-scm.com/
[build-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/epicweb-dev/advanced-vitest-patterns/validate.yml?branch=main&logo=github&style=flat-square
[build]: https://github.com/epicweb-dev/advanced-vitest-patterns/actions?query=workflow%3Avalidate
[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL%203.0%20License-blue.svg?style=flat-square
[license]: https://github.com/epicweb-dev/advanced-vitest-patterns/blob/main/LICENSE
[coc-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20of-conduct-ff69b4.svg?style=flat-square
[coc]: https://kentcdodds.com/conduct
[win-path]: https://www.howtogeek.com/118594/how-to-edit-your-system-path-for-easy-command-line-access/
[mac-path]: http://stackoverflow.com/a/24322978/971592
[issue]: https://github.com/epicweb-dev/advanced-vitest-patterns/issues/new
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

Commit message:

docs: add important notice to README and remove GitHub Actions workflow

README.md, after:

> ## 🚨 Important Notice
>
> This repository is a clone of the
> [Advanced Vitest Patterns](https://www.epicweb.dev/workshops/advanced-vitest-patterns)
> by Epic Web. It has been published solely to document my GitHub activity and
> for personal educational purposes.
>
> **Note:** This is not an official fork or a maintained derivative of the
> original project.

<div align="center">
  <h1><a href="https://www.epicweb.dev/workshops">Advanced Vitest Patterns</a></h1>
  <strong>
    Become a Vitest superuser 🦹‍♀️
  </strong>
</div>

<hr />

<div align="center">
  <a
    alt="Epic Web logo with the words Deployed Version"
    href="https://advanced-vitest-patterns.epicweb.dev/"
  >
    <img
      width="300px"
      src="https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/1500684/254000390-447a3559-e7b9-4918-947a-1b326d239771.png"
    />
  </a>
</div>

<hr />

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[![Build Status][build-badge]][build]
[![GPL 3.0 License][license-badge]][license]
[![Code of Conduct][coc-badge]][coc]
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Prerequisites

- Prior experience with testing frameworks like Jest or Vitest is **required**.
- Basic level of TypeScript is **recommended** since all the exercises are
  written in TypeScript and you may have to write a type or two yourself.
- Visual Studio Code or Visual Studio Code-based editor is **recommended** as a
  few exercises feature extensions for that editor. The majority of the topics,
  however, is editor-agnostic.

## Pre-workshop Resources

Here are some resources you can read before taking the workshop to get you up to
speed on some of the tools and concepts we'll be covering:

- [Why Vitest?](https://main.vitest.dev/guide/why.html) and
  [Vitest comparisons to other tools](https://main.vitest.dev/guide/comparisons.html)
  will give you a good understanding as to why we are using Vitest in this (and
  other) workshops.
- [Working with Visual Studio Code Extensions Marketplace](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/configure/extensions/extension-marketplace).

## System Requirements

- [git][git] v2.18 or greater
- **[NodeJS][node] v24 or greater**
- [npm][npm] v8 or greater

All of these must be available in your `PATH`. To verify things are set up
properly, you can run this:

```shell
git --version
node --version
npm --version
```

If you have trouble with any of these, learn more about the PATH environment
variable and how to fix it here for [windows][win-path] or
[mac/linux][mac-path].

## Setup

This is a pretty large project (it's actually many apps in one) so it can take
several minutes to get everything set up the first time. Please have a strong
network connection before running the setup and grab a snack.

> **Warning**: This repo is _very_ large. Make sure you have a good internet
> connection before you start the setup process. The instructions below use
> `--depth` to limit the amount you download, but if you have a slow connection,
> or you pay for bandwidth, you may want to find a place with a better
> connection.

Follow these steps to get this set up:

```sh nonumber
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/epicweb-dev/advanced-vitest-patterns.git
cd advanced-vitest-patterns
npm run setup
```

If you experience errors here, please open [an issue][issue] with as many
details as you can offer.

## The Workshop App

Learn all about the workshop app on the
[Epic Web Getting Started Guide](https://www.epicweb.dev/get-started).

[![Kent with the workshop app in the background](https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/1500684/280407082-0e012138-e01d-45d5-abf2-86ffe5d03c69.png)](https://www.epicweb.dev/get-started)

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.com/
[node]: https://nodejs.org
[git]: https://git-scm.com/
[build-badge]: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/epicweb-dev/advanced-vitest-patterns/validate.yml?branch=main&logo=github&style=flat-square
[build]: https://github.com/epicweb-dev/advanced-vitest-patterns/actions?query=workflow%3Avalidate
[license-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL%203.0%20License-blue.svg?style=flat-square
[license]: https://github.com/epicweb-dev/advanced-vitest-patterns/blob/main/LICENSE
[coc-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20of-conduct-ff69b4.svg?style=flat-square
[coc]: https://kentcdodds.com/conduct
[win-path]: https://www.howtogeek.com/118594/how-to-edit-your-system-path-for-easy-command-line-access/
[mac-path]: http://stackoverflow.com/a/24322978/971592
[issue]: https://github.com/epicweb-dev/advanced-vitest-patterns/issues/new
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
