playground/README.mdx, before:

# Custom equality testers

<EpicVideo url="https://www.epicweb.dev/workshops/advanced-vitest-patterns/assertions/03-03-problem" />

Assertions in tests often come down to _value comparison_. You expect the result of <span style={{ whiteSpace: 'nowrap' }}>`sum(2, 3)`</span> to equal `5`; you expect `cart` to have a property `items` of type `Array`, and so on. And, sometimes, comparing things isn't as straightforward.

For example, imagine testing software that deals with measurements. Each measurement has a `value` (e.g. 1, 5, or 57) and a `unit` (inches, millimeters, centimeters, etc). It's quite easy to compare two measurements if both their values and units are the same:

```ts nonumber
expect(new Measurement(1, 'in')).toEqual(new Measurement(1, 'in')) // ✅
```

It's a bit harder if those two are different.

```ts nonumber
expect(new Measurement(1, 'in')).toEqual(new Measurement(2.54, 'cm')) // ❌
```

Semantically, these two measurements _are_ equal. 1 inch is, indeed, 2.54 centimeters. But syntanctically these two measurements produce different class instances that cannot be compared literally:

```ts nonumber
// If you unwrap measurements, you can imagine them as plain objects.
// Vitest will attempt to compare them as such, which will fail.
expect({ value: 1, unit: 'in' }).toEqual({ value: 2.54, unit: 'cm' }) // ❌
```

Although you can, technically, solve this problem by introducing a custom matcher (something like `.toEqualMeasurement()`), that would be like using a fire hose to pour oneself a glass of water. It will work, but it's rather an overkill.

In situations like this, all you want is to _teach Vitest how to compare custom values_. That would still be equality comparison, but the one you fine-tune to compare measurements for what they stand for and not what objects they produce.

You need to extend `.toEqual()` itself.

## Your task

👨‍💼 In this exercise, your task is to implement a _custom equality checker_ for Vitest. Head to the <InlineFile file="vitest.setup.ts" /> file and follow the instructions to do that.

As always, run the tests (`npm test`) to verify your solution. The tests shall pass!

Commit message:

refactor: rename exercise and remove custom equality tester for Measurement instances

playground/README.mdx, after:

# Retryable assertions

<EpicVideo url="https://www.epicweb.dev/workshops/advanced-vitest-patterns/assertions/03-04-problem" />

When testing asynchronous code, your system often arrives at the expected state _eventually_. That is why you often express your intentions in tests as "wait for X to happen" instead of claiming "X must happen immediately".

In Promise-based APIs, that expectation is neatly abstracted behind the `async`/`await` keywords to keep your tests clean:

```ts nonumber
const response = await fetch('/api/songs')
await expect(response.json()).resolves.toEqual(favoriteSongs)
```

> While fetching the list of songs takes time, that eventuality is represented as a Promise that you can `await`. This guaratees that your test will not continue until the data is fetched. Quite the same applies to reading the response body stream.

But not all systems are designed like that. And even the systems that _are_ designed like that may not expose you the right Promises to await.

In those situations, you likely reach to utilities like `waitFor()` to help you express the expected eventual state of your tested code.

```ts nonumber nocopy highlight=3-5
api.sideEffect()

await vi.waitFor(() => {
	expect(api.state).toEqual(expectedState)
})
```

And this works great. But today, I'd like to show you a different approach to expressing eventual expectations.

## Your task

👨‍💼 In <InlineFile file="src/client.test.ts" />, a new challenge is waiting for you. Follow the instructions to replace `vi.waitFor()` with a new API called `expect.poll()`. Make sure your tests are passing once you're done, and see you soon!
